[From http://hnn.us/articles/514.html]
HNN Index: What Is Plagiarism?
By HNN Staff 

Following are three definitions of plagiarism.

THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 

This is from the American Historical Association's 
Statement on Standards of Professional Conduct. It is 
reprinted courtesy of the AHA.


Identifying Plagiarism

The word plagiarism derives from Latin roots: plagiarius, 
an abductor, and plagiare, to steal. The expropriation of 
another author's text, and the presentation of it as one's 
own, constitutes plagiarism and is a serious violation of 
the ethics of scholarship. It undermines the credibility of 
historical inquiry.

In addition to the harm that plagiarism does to the pursuit 
of truth, it can also be an offense against the literary 
rights of the original author and the property rights of 
the copyright owner. Detection can therefore result not 
only in academic sanctions (such as dismissal from a 
graduate program, termination of a faculty contract, or 
denial of promotion or tenure) but in legal action as well. 
As a practical matter, plagiarism between scholars rarely 
goes to court, in part because legal concepts, such as 
infringement of copyright, are narrower than ethical 
standards that guide professional conduct. The real penalty 
for plagiarism is the abhorrence of the community of 
scholars. 

Plagiarism includes more subtle and perhaps more pernicious 
abuses than simply expropriating the exact wording of 
another author without attribution. Plagiarism also 
includes the limited borrowing, without attribution, of 
another person's distinctive and significant research 
findings, hypotheses, theories, rhetorical strategies, or 
interpretations, or an extended borrowing even with 
attribution. Of course, historical knowledge is cumulative, 
and thus in some contexts--such as textbooks, encyclopedia 
articles, or broad syntheses--the form of attribution, and 
the permissible extent of dependence on prior scholarship, 
citation and other forms of attribution will differ from 
what is expected in more limited monographs. As knowledge 
is disseminated to a wide public, it loses some of its 
personal reference. What belongs to whom becomes less 
distinct. But even in textbooks a historian should 
acknowledge the sources of recent or distinctive findings 
and interpretations, those not yet a part of the common 
understanding of the profession, and should never simply 
borrow and rephrase the findings of other scholars.

Plagiarism, then, takes many forms. The clearest abuse is 
the use of another's language without quotation marks and 
citation. More subtle abuses include the appropriation of 
concepts, data, or notes all disguised in newly crafted 
sentences, or reference to a borrowed work in an early note 
and then extensive further use without attribution. All 
such tactics reflect an unworthy disregard for the 
contributions of others.

Resisting Plagiarism

All who participate in the community of inquiry, as 
amateurs or as professionals, as students or as established 
historians, have an obligation to oppose deception. This 
obligation bears with special weight on the directors of 
graduate seminars. They are critical in shaping a young 
historian's perception of the ethics of scholarship. It is 
therefore incumbent on graduate teachers to seek 
opportunities for making the seminar also a workshop in 
scholarly integrity. After leaving graduate school, every 
historian will have to depend primarily on vigilant 
self-criticism. Throughout our lives none of us can cease 
to question the claims our work makes and the sort of 
credit it grants to others. 

But just as important as the self-criticism that guards us 
from self-deception is the formation of work habits that 
protect a scholar from plagiarism. The plagiarist's 
standard defense--that he or she was misled by hastily 
taken and imperfect notes--is plausible only in the context 
of a wider tolerance of shoddy work. A basic rule of good 
notetaking requires every researcher to distinguish 
scrupulously between exact quotation and paraphrase. A 
basic rule of good writing warns us against following our 
own paraphrased notes slavishly. When a historian simply 
links one paraphrase to the next, even if the sources are 
cited, a kind of structural misuse takes place; the writer 
is implicitly claiming a shaping intelligence that actually 
belonged to the sources. Faced with charges of failing to 
acknowledge dependence on certain sources, a historian 
usually pleads that the lapse was inadvertent. This excuse 
will be easily disposed of if scholars take seriously the 
injunction to check their manuscripts against the 
underlying texts prior to publication. 

The second line of defense against plagiarism is organized 
and punitive. Every institution that includes or represents 
a body of scholars has an obligation to establish 
procedures designed to clarify and uphold their ethical 
standards. Every institution that employs historians bears 
an especially critical responsibility to maintain the 
integrity and reputation of its staff. This applies to 
government agencies, corporations, publishing firms, and 
public service organizations such as museums and libraries, 
as surely as it does to educational facilities. Usually, it 
is the employing institution that is expected to 
investigate charges of plagiarism promptly and impartially 
and to invoke appropriate sanctions when the charges are 
sustained. Penalties for scholarly misconduct should vary 
according to the seriousness of the offense, and the 
protections of due process should always apply. A 
persistent pattern of deception may justify public 
disclosure or even termination of an academic career; some 
scattered misappropriations may warrant only a formal 
reprimand. 

All historians share responsibility for maintenance of the 
highest standards of intellectual integrity. When 
appraising manuscripts for publication, reviewing books, or 
evaluating peers for placement, promotion, and tenure, 
scholars must evaluate the honesty and reliability with 
which the historian uses primary and secondary source 
materials. Scholarship flourishes in an atmosphere of 
openness and candor, which should include the scrutiny and 
discussion of academic deception.

Statement Courtesy the American Historical Association 

THE MODERN LANGUAGE ASSOCIATION 

This is from Joseph Gibaldi and Walter S. Achtert, MLA 
Handbook for Writers of Research Papers (3rd ed. New York: 
The Modern Language Association of America, 1988), pp. 
21-25.

The MLA Handbook defines plagiarism as the use of another 
person's ideas or expressions in your writing without 
giving proper credit to the source. The word comes from the 
Latin word plagiarius ("kidnapper"), and Alexander Lindey 
defines it as "the false assumption of authorship: the 
wrongful act of taking the product of another person's 
mind, and presenting it as one's own" (Plagiarism and 
Originality [New York: Harper, 1952] 2).

"In short, to plagiarize is to give the impression that you 
have written or thought something that you have in fact 
borrowed from someone else." This can include paraphrasing, 
copying someone else's writing word for word, or using 
ideas that aren't your own without proper citation. 
Plagiarism is often unintentional, and bad research habits 
can form early in elementary school. Unfortunately, these 
bad habits can continue throughout high school and college 
and may result in severe consequences, from failure in a 
course to expulsion. To avoid these consequences, always 
cite your sources if you are unsure if you are plagiarizing 
(Gibaldi 21-25).

THE AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION

This is from the Manual of the American Psychological 
Association (Washington DC: American Psychological 
Association. 1995), 292-95. 

Plagiarism (Principle 6.22)

Quotation marks should be used to indicate the exact words 
of another. Summarizing a passage or rearranging the order 
of a sentence and changing some of the words is 
paraphrasing. Each time a source is paraphrased, a credit 
for the source needs to be included in the text. 

The key element of this principle is that an author does 
not present the work of another as if it were his or her 
own work. This can extend to ideas as well as written 
words. If an author models a study after one done by 
someone else, the originating author should be given 
credit. If the rationale for a study was suggested in the 
Discussion section of someone else's article, that person 
should be given credit. Given the free exchange of ideas, 
which is very important to the health of psychology, an 
author may not know where an idea for a study originated. 
If the author does know, however, the author should 
acknowledge the source; this includes personal 
communications (Publication Manual.... 292-95). 
